# PostgreSQL data types:

- Boolean
- Numeric type such as `(Integer and Floating-Point)`.
- Char type such as `(char, varchar, text)`.
- Temporal type such as `(date, time, timestamp and interval)`.
- UUID type Universally unique identifiers
- Array for storing array `(numbers and string)`.
- JSON stores json data.
- Special type such as network address and geometric data.

<br>

**`Boolean:`**<br>
A boolan data types has `one` of three values.

- true
- false
- null

You can choose `boolean` or `bool` keyword.

`Note:`<br>

- 1, t, yes,y, true => values are converted to true.
- 0, f, no, false => values are converted to false.

<br>

**`Character:`**<br>
It has three char data types.

- char(n) => fixed-length, add pad space if shorter then given column length.
- varchar(n) => variable-length, does not add pad space if string is shorter then colum length.
- text => unlimited length.

<br>

**`Numeric:`**<br>
It is provide two distinct types of numbers:

- `Integers:` <br>
  There are three kind of integers:

  - `SMALLINT (small integer):` it is 1-byte signed integer that has a range from `-32768 - 32767`. <br>
  - `INT (integer):` It is a 4-byte integer that has a range from `-2147483648 - 2147483647`. <br>
  - `SERIAL:` It is a same as `integer` except that will autometically generate and populate value into serial. it is similar to `AUTO_INCREMENT`.

    `Example:`

    ```PostgreSQL
    CREATE TABLE users (
      user_id SERIAL
    )
    ```

    - First, create a sequence object and set the next value generated by the sequence as the default value for the column.

    - Second, Add a `NOT NULL` constraint to the user_id column becouse sequence always generate an integer.

    - Third, assign the owner of the sequence to the id column.

    `How it works (Behind the scene):`

    ```PostgreSQL
    CREATE SEQUENCE table_name_user_id_seq;

    CREATE TABLE users (
      user_id integer NOT NULL DEFAULT nextval('table_name_user_id_seq')
    )

    ALTER SEQUENCE table_name_user_id_seqsele
    OWNED BY users.user_id;
    ```

    `PostgreSQL` provide three serial types:

    | Name         | Storage size | Range                          |
    | ------------ | ------------ | ------------------------------ |
    | SMALLSERIRAL | 2 byte       | 1 to 32,767                    |
    | SERIRAL      | 4 byte       | 1 to 2,147,483,647             |
    | BIGSERIRAL   | 8 byte       | 1 to 9,233,372,036,854,775,807 |

- `floating-point:`<br>
  There are three main types of floating-point numbers:

  - `float(n):` Whose precision, at least , n up to max `8 bytes`.
  - `real or float8:` 4 byte floating point number.
  - `numeric or numeric(p,s):` p for digit, s for decimal.
